PROGRAM FEATURES

This wrapper allows the tuning of:
   - missing values
   - features
   - ML algorithms parameters

PROGRAM STRUCTURE

The wrapper is compose by the following csh scripts:
  - wrapperclass : includes the main program cycle for classification algorithms
  - wrapperreg : includes the main program cycle for regression algorithms
  - addOneAll: performs auxiliary tasks in the feature selection procedure


ASSUMPTIONS

It is assumed the following:
   - there exist the directories: settings, work and results
   - all configuration files are in the "settings" directory
   - the data set is in the directory of the wrapper and in in Weka ARFF format
   - the best results is stored in the files best.arrf and best.out in the
     directory of wrapper
   - the best for each algorithm will be stored in the "work" directory and are
     files in a directory with the name of the algorithm
   - the quality of the generated models are assessed via cross-validation 
     implemented by Weka

PROGRAM USE

In order to adequate the wrapper to your needs please do the following
configuration steps.

1. Edit the wrapper[class|reg] file and change: 
   i) WEKA_HOME variable to the place we have the weka.jar file
   ii) the "CV_FOLDS" if the number of
   folds is  different from 10
   iii) DEPTHMAX variable to set the depth of the feature selection
   (maximum number of features removed from the initial set). It works on 
   breadth-first fashion

2. In the "settings" directory edit the file "algorithms[class|reg]". Here you
   write in each line the name of algorithms to be used.

3. For each algorithm specified in the file "algorithms" there should be a file
   in the "settings" directory with the filestem equal to the name in the 
   algorithm's file and with the extension "conf". See below for the syntax of
   the content of that file.

4. In the "settings" directory edit the file "missing". Here you write in
   each line the policies for handling missing values. Each line is one of:
       donothing   .... meaning that the ML algorithms will take care of 
                        missing values
       replace     .... use Weka pre-processing procedure for missing values,
                        that is, for nominal attributes use the attribute mode 
                        value, for numerical attributes use the attribute mean 
                        value.
       remove      ...  remove from the data set records with missing values


ML ALGORITHM CONFIGURATION FILE

The Alg.conf files have the following syntax. In line 1 there must be
the full name of the Weka java class for that algorithm.  In each of
the following line the different parameters are specified. In each
such line the first item is the name of the parameter as it appear in
the Weka command line. The other items in the line, are separated by
spaces, and represent the values for that parameter that are going to
be evaluated in combination with other. Include as many values as you want.
Example of a configuration file for J48 (j48.conf):
weka.classifiers.trees.J48
-M 2 5 10 15 20
-C 0.01 0.2 0.4 0.5
-A



CONTACT

Please send corrections and/or suggestions to rcamacho@fe.up.pt
